---
layout: post
title:  "Assignment 0 - Article 1 - Low Force Stereolithography: A first look at Formlabs' new 3D printers"
---

<https://www.tctmagazine.com/3d-printing-news/formlabs-low-force-stereolithography-3d-printers/>

## Allison Cox

Stereolithography is defined as a form of 3D printing technology used for creating models, prototypes, patterns, and production parts in a layer by layer fashion using photochemical processes by which light causes chemical monomers to link together to form polymers. The article discusses Formlabs’ new 3D printers, created by a combination of a flexible tank and a scalable light processing unit, which creates a low force stereolithography. This allows the printing to be light-pressured and controlled. There are two types: Form 3 and Form 3L. Form 3 can handle high volume and print quality, whereas, Form 3L can hold two material cartridges and can produce larger prototypes in one build. I personally think these new 3D printers are product that will only keep improving. 

## Lorena Zamora Matos

The article presents two big innovations in the realm of 3D printing.  Firstly, the low-force variation of stereolithography means that the supports holding a piece being printed in place can be much thinner than before, saving considerable time in the finishing step of completed parts.  Secondly, a new type of resin allows for much faster prototyping, enabling one company to print experimental golf club heads in just two hours rather than six to eight.  Formlabs’s new machines which support these technologies are also capable of building larger parts than earlier models, enabling companies to reduce time spent in assembly as well. At this rate of evolution, I am sure that 3D printing will be the solution for more complex and costly manufacturing processes. I am looking forward to seeing what they can produce next.

## Jamarius Willis

This article is very intriguing because it discusses to next gen for stereolithography. I have never seen anything of this nature before so it really caught my attention. Low force stereolithography is very efficient because it uses a flexible tank to reduce the pressure in parts when printing. The LPU helps maintain the accuracy by keeping high density laser spot. The ability to make prototypes more efficiently and effectively is a major step towards innovation for engineering. This printer is very useful for engineers but also the everyday people that may have a great concept or idea they are able to bring it to life and take things to next level. As a business professional often times it is difficult to get concepts across to other engineers and I find tools like this to be very useful to allow others to visual a super accurate prototype vice versa.

## Lindsey Cabanas

The new process, Low Force Stereolithography, is extremely exciting for processing precise parts consistently. If the suspected new Draft Resin is able to print four times faster, this would allow for 3D printer use to be considered differently. One of the downsides to current iterations of 3D printers is the speed of printing, with larger parts taking days to print. To be able to print consistent precise parts quickly would be an advantage in many manufacturing facilities worldwide. It would also be such an advantage to be able to print parts in one build. The variety of use for the new 3D printers would also be heavily dependent upon the specific strength specifications of the new Draft Resin. The development of these machines is very exciting as it could be a very large step for manufacturing and developing working prototypes quickly.

## Brian Evans

Being a billion dollar printing company with the likes of former GE CEO as a board member, Formlabs definitely seems to be a major player in the world of 3D printing.  The introduction of the Form 3 products should be a valuable tool for the existing engineering, manufacturing, and dental customers that use this product.  This new Low Force Stereolithography (LFS) technology which allows “consistent flawless parts” and bigger prototypes sounds very attractive.  It will be interesting to see how the $3500 Form 3 and $9999 Form 3L price tag go over with customers who use these printers.
Anthony Randazzo:

Since the Dimension-breaking creation of the 3D printer in 1983, this method of prototyping has grown rapidly. A labor pool once generously stocked with machinist is on the verge of extinction. As a result, the demand for the latest AM technology is at an all time high for several industries. Stereolithography uses a photochemical processes by which light causes chemical monomers to link together to form polymers then placing resin in the desider location. The creators of this methodology Formlabs, have recently announced a new printer to increase printing speed, quality, size, and material. The Form 3 and 3L implement Low Force Stereolithography (LFS) and Light Processing Unit (LPU) to minimize print times and design imperfections. One might ask, is there truly a need for 300-micron layer accuracy at ludicrous speeds? There most definitely is for  the medical field. In the previous version the Form 2, uses biocompatible resin to produce an array of tools for dental application as well as education. Backed by over $1 Billion worth of investors, Formlabs is on the path to creating life saving machines. From a project management perspective, 3D printers are essential tool to utilizes since it answers questions affordably, efficiently, and quickly. Regardless if the printer is extruding PLA, metal, or biocompatible resin, they can only be recycled. To prevent a large quantity of prototypes from overpowering landfill, the sustainable and green project focus for Formlabs to tackle is a biodegradable filament.    

## William Smith

Formlab is looking to help their clients prototype and create end user products at a higher quality with less headaches. Formlab has introduced its Form 3 and Form 3L 3D printers which are aimed at allowing companies to print larger products. A specific example is with a wheelchair company that notoriously uses Formlab products, in the past they would have to print several parts and piece them together but now they will be able to print one time and have all the parts included. In the eyes of a project manager, if I could purchase these products for $3,500 or $9,999 (respectively) and increase my production levels while decreasing my errors and needs to redo designs this would be the ultimate win win for my company.

## Avni Patel

This article introduced two new interesting and advanced devices by Formlab to the mechanical field. These two new tools are 3D printers - the Form 3 and Form 3L systems. Nowadays, a large number of professionals uses 3D printers to develop their products which we use basically every day. With these two innovative 3D printers, now companies will be able to create their product into flawless prints with high detailed quality models. Moreover, these devices offer notifications to owners of its completion. I think with this evolving technology, it can help some of current 3D printers as well to update in order to support more environmentally friendly because printers tend to produce toxic fumes when heated. Overall I think, 3D printers are very helpful in almost all manufacturing process and the more the technology evolves, the better it is.
