---
layout: post
title:  "Assignment 2 - Article 2 - Listen to Brutal Death Metal Made by a Neural Network"
---

<https://futurism.us8.list-manage.com/track/click?u=aa1f459b1dc368b292f0587f2&id=ae3f32833a&e=3ee82a4279>

## Allison Cox

The article discusses neutral network creating brutal metal music and how it has impacted bands all over. This caused me to think about the music industry today and how much it has changed. In my opinion, music is not the same as it use to be. It seems easier to create and market the music created with the social media and technology. Artists no longer have to make an entire album to be heard and can use technology to create the band. This gives all an equal opportunity to show off their musical talents. 

## Brian Evans

All that I can say about this article is that it sounds like another example of where the advancement in technology has created a remarkable way of doing things.  We are now in a technological word and technology has probable impacted the music industry more than any, and this is an example of such impact.  It will be interesting to see where this goes.     

## Lorena Zamora Matos

This is pretty cool.  There’s probably a meta-commentary about the formulaic nature of entertainment, even on the fringes, but I’m not going to get into that.  Death metal makes heavy (pun not intended) use of noise as an instrument, so it lends itself to being generated by neural networks whose output may not always make sense.  What I’d like to see is a neural network that generates music based on the tastes of its listeners.  Give people a way to influence the system with simple upvote/downvote controls and allow the neural network to adjust its output to maximize the vote ratio coming in.

## Avni Patel

First of all, I would like to say, unlike the old year generation, this new generation has been inventing far more new gadgets and innovative technologies nowadays. 

## Anthony Randazzo

AI is the end goal from a sustainability standpoint regardless of the application. I agree with Allison’s statement about how music has changed. For genres like death metal, the integration worked flawlessly. Other genres like country music, need a face. 

## Lindsey Cabanas

I think that this is an interesting use of AI technology. I’m curious what made some of the tracks not usable, in the Dadabots’ previous experiment. I am unsure what would classify music usable versus not usable. I can say that I will not be listening to this music, as interesting as the backstory behind its creation is.

## Jamarius Willis

This a great article in reference to the advancement of music and technology. On a side note. When I worked at Facebook one of the hackathon projects I was working on focused on creating beats using augmented reality. I thought it was so awesome prototyping it. We had to disband the project because we used internal resources to build it. Seeing technology like this article motivates me even more that hopefully we can one day make music without even having to use a keyboard and it could made with artificial intelligence. Imagine having a really cool rhythm in your head and your able to feed it to an AI system through neuro transfer. We would have access to so much more music. One of the most difficult things as a music producer is a getting a creative idea out of your head and implemented in enough time before you forget. I thoroughly enjoyed this article and I believe it could lead to greater things.
